# Web App for *Verify* NEWS

The frontend is built with a combination of technologies but mainly with - React and Django Templating Language (DTL).

## Technologies Used:
- HTML, CSS (SCSS), JS
- Bootstrap 5
- React
- D3.js
- DTL  

<br>

## What goes where?
- All base html files are being generated using DTL.
- Static pages are built using ***html, sass + bootstrap 5 and JS***  
- App Home, News Verifier, Bot Tracker are built using ***React***
- All visualizations are made using ***D3.js*** 

## Why So Many?
- The problem we are solving requires a backend, that is also suitable for training Machine learning models
- Some pages have interactive elements, that's why React
- Bootstrap and Sass for quick styling
- D3.js for the visualizations of results generated by ML models

<br>

> **NOTE:** The static pages include product home, about, contact, and credits. 


<br> 

## TRY IT OUT:

First, navigate to the root of the project repo. 

Now generate the static files using the following npm command:
```
# This will install all npm dependencies in the node_modules/ folder
npm i           

# To generate the static files
npm run dev
```
This will create a new file called `webpack-stats.json` in the root folder. 

The next step is to create a new virtual environment for our Python Django project. We will also activate it and install all the dependencies.
```
# Upgrade pip for latest updates
python -m pip install --upgrade pip     

# Name your virtual environment anything - like '.venv'
python -m venv .venv     

# Activate the virtual environment
.venv/Scripts/activate (Windows) 
.venv/bin/activate (Linux)

# Update pip inside the activated environment
python -m pip install --upgrade pip  

# Install the requirements
pip install -r requirements.txt
``` 

Then, launch the Django project using:
```
python manage.py runserver
```
This will start a server on a local address [http://127.0.0.1:8000](http://127.0.0.1:8000)


## All this to run a Web App?
Whoa, that was a lot of steps for starting a single web app. It's because of the need for a Django Python backend and Analysis through ML.
Having different technologies in a single project requires not just their own configuration/dependency installation but also a need to configure them to work together.

<br><br>

# CONTRIBUTING:

To contribute to this project, you need to repeat all the steps performed above, except that you need to replace the command `npm run dev` with `npm run watch`. Unlike `dev`, the `watch` command will generate static files every time you edit your source, which is required when developing your web app.

<br>

> Please note that the static files are being served by Django so you need to reload/refresh the page every time as there is no hot reloading.

<br>

## Guidelines:
- Name all react components with .jsx extension
- All stylesheets must be sass stylesheets importing `_base.scss` (partial scss file)
- All assets/static files must be placed under the right folder under the assets/ folder.
- Include bs5 in `app.jsx` or `index.js` using:
  
``` 
import 'Assets/sass/vendors/bootstrap5.min.css';
import 'Assets/js/popper.js';
```

- Use bootstrap containers or CSS flex/grid for making any layout
- Place Containers like App, Home, NewsVerifier in the `src/containers/`
- Place all components like Navbar, SideBar, MainContent under `src/components/`
- Use `@import` statements to include fonts from google fonts
- All the colors, fonts are already defined and will be available after importing base
- No need to mess with `public/` folder, you can mount your react app on a div with a class `react-app` defined on it.
- Also, do not mess with the `backend` folder or any other backend associate files in the root directory like `manage.py` and `requirements.txt`

<br>

## ***Now, just go and build stuff!*** 